.TH KLIP 1 2024-09-29 "0.1.0" "User Commands"
.
.
.SH NAME
klip \- copy/paste anything over the network
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
\fBklip\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] <\fICOMMAND\fP>
.sp
\fBklip\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fBhelp\fP [\fICOMMAND\fP]
.sp
\fBklip\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fBversion\fP
.sp
\fBklip\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fB\-\-help\fP
.sp
\fBklip\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP] \fB\-\-version\fP
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
klip is a tool for copying and pasting anything over the network. It works by
sending content to an intermediary server, which can then be retrieved by any
client with the correct credentials. This allows for sharing data across hosts
that are behind different NATs, firewalls, or are otherwise unable to
communicate directly.
.sp
The server does not know much about the data it is handling, and can therefore
be exposed to the public internet without much risk.
.sp
klip reads from standard input and writes to standard output. For the sake of
simplicity and ease of maintenance, there are no options to change the input or
output to point to files or sockets or anything else. Instead, one can use
pipes or redirection to achieve the desired effect.
.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP 12
\fIc\fP, \fIcopy\fP
.RS 4
Send the content of standard input to the klip clipboard.
.sp
The clipboard is not persisted anywhere and has no history. This command will
overwrite any existing content.
.RE
.TP 12
\fIp\fP, \fIpaste\fP
.RS 4
Retrieve content from the klip clipboard and write it to standard output.
.sp
The content on the server is left intact until the next \fIcopy\fP or \fImove\fP
command.
.RE
.TP 12
\fIm\fP, \fImove\fP
.RS 4
Retrieve and delete content from the klip clipboard and write it to standard
output.
.sp
This operation is not atomic. This means that there is the possibility of a race
condition if multiple clients query the clipboard. There is no ordering of
individual client connections, therefore it cannot be determined which of the
racing clients will actually receive the content. However, the client that
issued the move is guaranteed to receive the content.
.RE
.TP 12
\fIserve\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.RS 4
Start a klip server.
.sp
This command must be run on a machine that is accessible to all clients that
you wish to share content with. Like other commands, this is also silent and
there are no access logs.
.RE
.TP 12
\fIgenkeys\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.RS 4
Generates all required keys and writes the resultant configuration to standard
output.
.sp
The configuration printed includes the default listen and connect addresses and
is formatted as a TOML document for ease of copying into a configuration file.
.sp
Not all keys are actually necessary for both clients and servers. There are
separate sections in the output for each use case, and it is recommended to only
store what is necessary in the configuration file for each host.
.RE 
.TP 12
\fIhelp\fP [\fICOMMAND\fP]
.RS 4
Display help information for a specific command.
.sp
If no command is specified, this will display general help information.
.RE
.TP 12
\fIversion\fP
.RS 4
Display version information.
.RE
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
This section documents all flags that klip accepts. Flags are grouped according
to the commands they are associated with.
.
.SS KLIP OPTIONS
.sp
\fI\-c\fP \fIFILE\fP, \fI\-\-config\fP=\fIFILE\fP
.RS 4
Load configuration from \fIFILE\fP. If this flag is not specified, klip will
look for a config file at \fI$HOME/.klip.toml\fP on Unix-like systems and
\fI%USERPROFILE%\\klip.toml\fP on Windows.
.RE
\fI\-h\fP, \fI\-\-help\fP
.RS 4
Display help information for the command.
.RE
\fI\-V\fP, \fI\-\-version\fP
.RS 4
Display version information.
.RE
.
.SS SERVE OPTIONS
.sp
\fI\-\-max\-clients\fP=\fINUM\fP
.RS 4
Set the maximum number of simultaneous client connections. Defaults to 10.
.RE
\fI\-\-max\-len\-mb\fP=\fINUM\fP
.RS 4
Set the maximum content length to accept in MiB. Set to 0 for no limit (which is
the default).
.RE
\fI\-t\fP \fITIMEOUT\fP, \fI\-\-timeout\fP=\fITIMEOUT\fP
.RS 4
Set the connection timeout in seconds. Defaults to 10.
.sp
This refers only to the timeout for establishing a connection. Use the
\fI\-\-data\-timeout\fP flag to set the data transmission timeout.
.RE
\fI\-\-data\-timeout\fP=\fITIMEOUT\fP
.RS 4
Set the data transmission timeout in seconds. Defaults to 3600.
.RE
.
.SS GENKEYS OPTIONS
.sp
\fI\-p\fP, \fI\-\-password\fP
.RS 4
If set, the keys are generated deterministically from a password. The password
must be provided at the subsequent prompt and will not be displayed on the
screen while typing.
.sp
This flag is not recommended to be set on most systems, and randomly generated
keys should be used instead. This is provided because it is useful in some
airgapped systems.
.RE
.
.
.SH EXIT STATUS
After successful execution, the exit status of the program is \fB0\fP. If an
error occurred, the exit status is \fB1\fP.
.sp
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB0\fP exit status indicates that the command was successful.
.
.IP \(bu 3n
\fB1\fP exit status indicates that an error occurred. This is true for both
catastrophic errors and for soft errors.
.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
klip reads its configuration from a TOML file. The default location for this
file is \fI$HOME/.klip.toml\fP on Unix-like systems and
\fI%USERPROFILE%\\klip.toml\fP on Windows. This can be overridden with the
\fI\-\-config\fP option.
.sp
A configuration file can be generated using the \fIgenkeys\fP command. Each
invocation of this command produces a set of keys for the server and client.
Clients that share these keys can all share content with each other through the
server.
.sp
Only the \fBlisten\fP and \fBconnect\fP fields are meant to be edited manually.
These fields represent the address that the server should bind to, and the
address that the client should connect to, respectively.
.
.
.SH SHELL COMPLETION
Shell completion files are included in the release tarball for Bash, Fish, Zsh,
PowerShell, and Elvish.
.sp
For \fBbash\fP, move \fBklip.bash\fP to \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/bash_completion\fP
or \fB/etc/bash_completion.d/\fP.
.sp
For \fBfish\fP, move \fBklip.fish\fP to \fB$HOME/.config/fish/completions/\fP.
.sp
For \fBzsh\fP, move \fB_klip\fP to one of your \fB$fpath\fP directories.
.
.
.SH VERSION
0.1.0
.
.
.SH HOMEPAGE
\fIhttps://git.5ht2.me/lmaotrigine/klip\fP
.sp
Please report bugs and feature requests to the issue tracker. Please do your
best to provide a reproducible test case for bugs. This should include the
content being copied, the \fBklip\fP command, the actual output, and the
expected output.
.
.
.SH AUTHORS
Isis Ebsen <\fIisis@5ht2.me\fP>
